README.md, before:

# Machine Learning Notebooks
I collect various Jupyter notebooks of ML projects I worked on in this repository.

### Case Study -- Mines vs Rocks
This is a very small data set (208 rows) which is also wide (60 predictor variables). I investigated the effects of small sample size in the notebook. 
I tend to use the year we are in (2019 in this case) as the random number generator seed and I realized that I got very lucky in this dataset as a result; 
I got perfect recall! If I had worked on it in a different year, the result would have been drastically different. Therefore, I averaged the performance of 
my models using different seeds in order to reduce the variance.

### Support Vector Identification
When I was learning the theory of Support Vector Machines (SVM) from the awesome book titled 'An Introduction to Statistical Learning with Applications in R' of 
James, Witten, Hastie and Tibshirani (which is made freely available by the authors, hint: just google it), I had to disagree with the authors on a simple case of 
counting. In one of the figures (the bottom right one on page 348), the authors say that there are eight support vectors and I counted nine! (I am including the 
figure here for quick reference). As a result, I simulated some data, fitted SVMs, and identified the support vectors to check my understanding of the concept.

Commit message:

added descriptions for dimension reduction notebooks

README.md, after:

# Machine Learning Notebooks
I collect various Jupyter notebooks of ML projects I worked on in this repository.

### Case Study -- Mines vs Rocks
This is a very small data set (208 rows) which is also wide (60 predictor variables). I investigated the effects of small sample size in the notebook. 
I tend to use the year we are in (2019 in this case) as the random number generator seed and I realized that I got very lucky in this dataset as a result; 
I got perfect recall! If I had worked on it in a different year, the result would have been drastically different. Therefore, I averaged the performance of 
my models using different seeds in order to reduce the variance.

### Dimension Reduction -- Fashion-MNIST
Fashion-MNIST is a dataset which contains 70000 everyday clothing items/accesories represented as a grayscale 28x28 image; hence, each instance lives in a 784 dimensional
space. We use various dimension reduction algorithms such as PCA, NMF, t-SNE, UMAP, and Isomap in order to reduce the dimension to 2 and visualize the dataset as a scatterplot 
thereby.

### Dimension Reduction -- MNIST
MNIST is a dataset comprising 70000 hand-written digits represented as a grayscale 28x28 image; hence, each instance lives in a 784 dimensional
space. We use various dimension reduction algorithms such as PCA, NMF, t-SNE, UMAP, and Isomap in order to reduce the dimension to 2 and visualize the dataset as a scatterplot 
thereby.

### Dimension Reduction -- Breast Cancer Dataset
The Breast Cancer (diagnostic) dataset contains 569 instances (212 malignant and 357 benign) with 30 numeric features which are computed from a digitized image of a fine 
needle aspirate (FNA) of a breast mass.  They describe characteristics of the cell nuclei present in the image. We use various dimension reduction algorithms such as PCA, 
NMF, t-SNE, UMAP, and Isomap in order to reduce the dimension to 2 and visualize the dataset as a scatterplot thereby.

### Support Vector Identification
When I was learning the theory of Support Vector Machines (SVM) from the awesome book titled 'An Introduction to Statistical Learning with Applications in R' of 
James, Witten, Hastie and Tibshirani (which is made freely available by the authors, hint: just google it), I had to disagree with the authors on a simple case of 
counting. In one of the figures (the bottom right one on page 348), the authors say that there are eight support vectors and I counted nine! (I am including the 
figure here for quick reference). As a result, I simulated some data, fitted SVMs, and identified the support vectors to check my understanding of the concept.
